Added code formatting guide (#1983)
tarantool/doc: doc/contributing/docs/markup/code.rst

Writing about code
==================

When writing articles, you need to format code specially, separating it from
other text. This document will guide you through typical cases when
it is recommended to use code highlighting.

Defining what code is
---------------------

In general, code is any text, processed by a machine. It is also probably code
if the expression contains characters that ordinary words do not have,
such as ``_, {}, [ ], .``.
Also, you should format the expression as code if it fits at least one
of the items in the list below:

> *   any parts of a programming language,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   any parts of a programming language: variable, class and method names,
    short expressions, data types and so on,```

> *   multiline errors in application logs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   multiline fragments of application logs,
```

> *   port number,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   example link which the reader will not open: ``example.com``, ``https://example.com:80``,
*   parts of URL, like port number,
```

Writing about code
==================

When writing articles, you have to format code specially, separating it from
other text. This document will guide you through typical cases when
it is recommended to use code highlighting.

> Defining what code is

Reviewer: The general rule is that code is any text, processed by a machine. Any parts of a programming language — yes. Package names and console commands — yes. Error messages in the GUI which humans have to read — probably, no. Error messages in strictly formatted application logs — probably, yes. Product names — certainly no.

---------------------

> It is not difficult to recognize the code snippet in the text. First of all,

Reviewer: Here "not difficult" is a subjective evaluation. It's a good practice to avoid evaluations but instead provide facts, so that our readers could make the same evaluation themselves.

Thing which isn't difficult for us, can be difficult for the reader. Saying that something is easy only adds to their frustration, when they struggle with doing something with the help of our docs. 

I highly recommend this talk by Jim Fisher: https://youtu.be/gsT2BBWBVmM

it is probably code if the expression contains characters that ordinary words
do not have, such as ``_, {}, [ ], .``.
Also, you should format the expression as code if it fits at least one
of the items in the list below:

*   attribute names, values and class names,
*   constant values for attributes,
*   method and function names,
*   language keywords,

> *   data types,

Reviewer: These all are entities of a programming language. Let's join them in a single list item.

> *   error messages,

Reviewer: I doubt that formatting *inline* error messages as code will help read them better. But when we provide several strings of an application's log, it's better to format them as code, because this is how humans see them. Also, machines read logs too.

> *   URL for localhost and intranet,

Reviewer: It depends on whether the user is going to open this link or not. For example, in a manual for building and running our docs on a local machine, we have an absolutely clickable http://localhost:8000 link.

*   port number,
*   package names,
*   CLI app names.

> **Items we don't format as code**

Reviewer: Is this a heading? Let's format it as one then. Or just make a paragraph.

*   names of products, organizations and services, for example, Tarantool,
    memtx, vinyl
*   well-established terms such as stdin and stdout

Code-blocks and inline code
---------------------------

If you have to choose between inline code and code-block highlighting,
pay attention to the following guidelines:

Code snippets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Use code-blocks when you have to highlight multiple lines of code.
Also, use it if your code snippet contains a standalone element

> that is not a part of the article's text. In code-blocks, you can enable

Reviewer: There are two separate things:

* (1) A code block, one of block elements on a page, the other being paragraph, list, table, admonition block, and so on. It can have a plural form: "code blocks". It exists on web and in books, and is 
* (2) The `code-block` directive in reStructuredText, used to make code blocks (1). There's no `code-blocks` directive and the plural form is "`code-block` directives". 

This section is about choosing between inline code and code blocks (1).

So, this can be an example for one more good idea: grammar doesn't apply to code, even inline.

* Correct: "use `shellcheck` to analyze your Bash code".
* Incorrect: "`shellcheck` your Bash code". It's best to not use code as a verb.
* Even worse: "shellcheck your Bash code". There's no such word in English and we don't explain what to use.
* Cursed: "try `shellchecking` your Bash code". There's no such word and no such application.

Please add this to the document.

> syntax highlighting if you specify the language for the snippet. Note that

Reviewer: > In code-blocks, you can enable
syntax highlighting if you specify the language for the snippet. Note that
in code-blocks you can write comments and translate them.

These are two great and valuable ideas. However, they're very different from the topic here. The topic is whether to paste some code inline or as a block. So these ideas should go each in it's own paragraph. Probably, with examples.

..  include:: _includes/inline-code.rst

Notes on using inline-code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*   If you have expressions such as ``id==4``, you should format the whole

>     expression as code inline. Also,you can use the words 'equals',
>     'doesn't equal' or other similar words without formatting expression

Reviewer: apostrophe (as single quote) in the phrase → use double quotes to avoid confusion

```suggestion
    expression as code inline. Also, you can use "equals",
    "doesn't equal" or other similar phrases without formatting expression
```

    as code. Both variants are correct.

*   Inline code can be used to highlight expressions that are hard to read,
    for example, words containing ``il``, ``Il`` or ``O0``.

Highlighting variables in code
------------------------------

> If you need to mark up a placeholder inside code inline, use the ``:samp:``

Reviewer: good!

role, like this:

..  literalinclude:: _includes/samp.rst
    :language: rst

And you will get this:

> ..  include:: _includes/samp.rst

Reviewer: extra indentation to separate the example output from the rest of the document

```suggestion
    ..  include:: _includes/samp.rst
```

> If you need to highlight a replaceable code in the code-block, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to highlight replaceable code in a code block, use
```

the following syntax:

..  literalinclude:: _includes/highlight.rst
    :language: rst

The output will look like this:

> .. include:: _includes/highlight.rst

Reviewer: same thing as above

```suggestion
    .. include:: _includes/highlight.rst
```

> Highlighting file name or directory in code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Highlighting file or directory name in code
```

But it's not a file name in code. It's a standalone file name, probably with a placeholder. So,

```suggestion
Formatting file and directory names
```

-------------------------------------------

> If you need to highlight some file name or path to file in text, use
> the ``:file:`` role. In addition, you can use curly braces inside this role
> to mark up a replaceable part:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To highlight a file name or path to a file, use the ``:file:`` role.
You can use curly braces to show a replaceable part:
```

.. literalinclude:: _includes/file.rst
    :language: rst

And you will get this:

> ..  include:: _includes/file.rst

Reviewer: once more 
```suggestion
    ..  include:: _includes/file.rst
```
